{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c0\c100000\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13260\viewh12140\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 interview/discussion/advice from \cf2 hans\cf0  of ubermorgen:\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 it was late 80s, early 90s, techno music and actual revolution in music; we\'92ve never heard of it before. there were new drugs or newly used drugs, like ectascy, MDMA\'85.and then mid-90s around 94 or 95 the first web browser arrived and plus the web became available as a mass technology, not only came out of the universities, but a mass applied technology. in the intersections of these happening,  we were just in a good time. liz was the university of economics and i was at the university of applied arts. we basically at the same time came in contact with the web. we both realized that this was the future. there\'92s no way around it, so in an affirmative way we just attacked it and went with it. the media hacking part was logical. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
i would say we are experimental, subversive, and maybe annoying. i think it\'92s annoying in a sense that it gets misinterpreted a lot. people think it\'92s political; people think we want to say something, and we don\'92t. also, projects are things we do create a reality that is not desired, also from ourselves. you find something you don\'92t like. once you can\'92t un-think it or un-know it, it\'92s not really comfortable, and it\'92s not really compatible to the art world. it\'92s slightly off, like it\'92s too real. it\'92s not produced enough. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 we never repeat a project. it\'92s boring. this is one of the things we never do exactly. it would bore us, but we think it\'92s our duty to constantly evolve\'97to stay ahead of the curve. there\'92s a lot of successful artists that find a way to do something good, really interesting, innovative, and even avant-grade. but they start to repeat and repeat and go awry a little bit, like variations and repetitions. commercially, this is very successful. once you find a niche or a style, you should just hit it and go with it. you go through this perpetual motion where the gallery wants more of the same, and you have to deliver more of the same. we don\'92t want that. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
the world has changed a lot. we need to find different methods as artists. \
\
when we were younger, we were punk. we just didn\'92t give a fuck. we didn\'92t care. if you have too many ideas on top of ideas, you just can\'92t give a fuck. do what you think is right. you are the generation that will create innovation, not the old motherfuckers; they\'92re too old. you have take something that deeply fascinates you, or something that falls into your lap, like vote-auction. at first, i didn\'92t even care about it from the beginning. it was just something that falls into your lap, and then you see, \'93oh that\'92s quite interesting.\'94 i don\'92t think about it in a conceptual way. i\'92m just going to follow through. it\'92s a question of your personality. you have to know how you function in order to treat the material you work with, and the materials, i mean ideas and the actual execution. also, you don\'92t have to do everything by yourself; it\'92s not necessary. if you\'92re better with ideas and structuring things, then you should stay on the conceptual side. that\'92s why we are a team, and we always work with people. i don\'92t do any programming. there\'92s other people doing the actual programming. there\'92s other people doing the visuals. i mainly do the textual or conceptual stuff.  \
\
try to be smart. try to outsmart a system. subversion is the key to liberation. don\'92t overdo it. in the beginning, just do small stuff. \
\
take some risks. you will get the rewards. if you\'92re not stupid about it, you will get the rewards. \
\
copy an interview that you find online from us. if anyone would ask, just say, \'93yeah it\'92s the same interview.\'94 and anything with plagiarism or any bullshit like that, \'93no no, the guy actually was just reading this interview to me.\'94 that\'92s the way i work. if i was writing some text, i just take some text and relabel it as my own. i don\'92t even tell anyone. it\'92s liberating because you can finally do what you need to be doing. }